Welcome back in the section we would start looking at modifiers we would look at what are the different
modifiers which are pleasant in terms of the access.
So the different access modifiers which represent our primate public predicted and default.
Other than that there are a couple of other modifiers called Find them and static as well.
So we would look at them in depth in this specific section.
Let's start with the default class modifier.
What is a default class mode for you.
Basically if you look at this particular class this class and it's named as default access class.
The reason it's a default access class is because there is nothing in front of it.
So there is no public or private or anything before the class.
This is usually how we would create a class public class.
And the name of the class.
But if you look at this there is no public before it.
So that's why this class is default access class.
So this is basically default access.
So for this class you're giving default access.
So the default access is when there is no access for their specified on the class.
There is no access modifier specified on the specific class.
And the other thing is default classes are visible only inside the same cage so only in this specific
package the default class will be visible.
That's the reason why default access is also called package access.
Now let's look at another class in the same package.
If you look at this is the class in the same package.
So you can see that this has the same package same package.
And in this class the default access class is available for using because they are in the same package.
So another class in same package and different access class I'm in the same package.
So you are able to access the default access class.
However let's back it was difficult different.
So if you look at this specific class you'll see that it's the access is B and here it's a.
So the package is it's package it it's package B.
So this is a different package.
So if you're trying to access the default access class in here do you get a compiler error.
To summarize.
Default access is package access.
So whenever a class has default access it means that it's only available for use inside the same package
only it will not be available outside in a different package.
The next access modifier is private access modifiers private access modifier.
It's typically used on variables and methods.
So you have member variables you have met that you have other control variables as well and you can
put a private access modifier on them.
Thing about private access modifier is that once you make a variable private it's only a label in the
class they are declared.
So they're not really available in any other class.
So for example even in the case of a subclass the private variables are not available.
So if I was superconscious with a private variable in this class I cannot be allowed to access the private
variables so that the private access model fails.
What will do for the next four questions is we look at these questions typically And then we have a
few examples to look at them practically.
So let's quickly get through this through understand these three these four different access modifiers
and then we'd discuss them with examples.
So to summarize I would like is more work can only be accessed a variable with a private access modifier
can only be accessed in the class where it's defined.
Nowhere else.
The next one is the default for package X mortified that we have already discussed that can be accessed
in that class as well as in the same package.
So in the same package anyway the thing is available so if you don't persuade access modifier before
a member variable or a member method then that particular variable is available inside other classes
in the same package.
And also the default variables and methods are available to subclasses in same package.
It's basically the same.
You have to be in the same package to be able to access protected access modifier.
What is protected access modifier protects us modifier is basically those things which are available
to sub class.
So if I put up productive access modifier on a Member way the then it's available in all these classes.
In addition it's also available in the same package.
So when I put a product that is more the same package plus subclasses the way I would usually remember
this is prior wadis Only same class default is same package protected the same package plus subclasses
and public is everywhere.
So once they put the public on the variable or a method then that is available for use anywhere in a
job program.
We'll look at a few examples.
So what we're looking at right here is what access types of variables can be accessed from a class in
the same package.
So let's look at this example class quickly where does the example class contain.
OK that's it.
The exempli class basically contains it.
So what access is this.
This is a default access right because there's nothing declared.
So this is public this is private This is protected.
And we have a default method because it doesn't have an access password and you have a public matter
a private method and a protected matter.
This is all that is present in the example class.
And the important thing to notice is the package in which it is present it's present in the member body
for access.
So now this particular x is reliable we would check when it's available and we will check what we believe
are available and what kind of a class what we are doing in here is we didn't create setters getters
and things like that for this variable.
I mean the idea was just to explain what is acceptable and not.
So we looked at the example class we'd had different variables with different scoops and we have a class
in the same package you can see that they are in the same package.
So this dishcloths is in the same package as the example class.
What I'm doing is creating an instance of the example class and then trying to check what are available.
So you can see that the public will able to are available in the public methods that are available be
protected and the defaulting methods are also available.
But the private ones are not available.
So if you go and you come in this out you get a compilation error because the private label is private.
The example class it will not be available to any other things.
So in this case in the same package this is a class in the same package.
So in that class in the same package the only kinds of variables that are available are public protected
and the default.
Now let's consider this class in a different package.
So this basically discuss in a different package and we are creating an instance of the example.
So we are creating an example and we are trying to access see what is available.
You can see that in a different package.
The only thing which is available is a public radio.
But if you go ahead and come into any of these lines you'll see that it would give us a compilation
error because other scopes are not available outside the package.
So in a different package the default scope will not be visible and the same is the case that predicted
predicted would only be visible in subclasses and inside the same package.
If you look at a class in a different package or the only one which you can use from the example class
are the public things.
Now let's look at subclass in the same package subclass in the same package.
It's no different from this class in the same package it has the same access as public wearables that
are visible protected with people side with people and the default way they will side with the same
is the case with the methods were full of subclass in different package so this subclass in different
package in the sense that this is extending the example is less if you look at it subclass in different
Bargas extent except examples less.
And in this subclass in different package what would be visible all the predicted variables also will
be with the built in normal class in a different package.
Only the public radio will side with me.
But in a subclass in a different package you can see that public is available as well as the protected
variables are also visible as a good job programmer.
You need to understand the different access modifiers where they are visible and make appropriate use
of them.
I would really recommend to start with this example class look at these things and play around with
these five classes that would be a really good exercise for you to do.
So those are the different access modifiers which are present in Jawa.
I would really recommend you to play around with this as an exercise.
At least 10 minutes with these things and try and understand them completely until the next read you
bring back.